So so far, I've shown you a lot of
various different techniques and
things to do with CSS.
By the way, we're essentially done
learning new stuff about CSS and
I'm gonna make you do some projects now.
But you have a pretty good grasp on
the realm of everything that's in CSS.
There's not a lot more that exists.
I mean,
there's even more advanced animations.
There's different ways of doing
layouts and things like that, but
you know most of the surface area
of what CSS can do for you now.
So you and
I are going to build this together.
This newspaper looking article together.
There's many ways of doing this correctly.
Let's talk about how, How I would do this.
So this is the whole page here.
It's got a navigation bar up here.
This has got a title here.
It's got nice little borders,
it's got an image, it's got text on it.
So let's take a look at what
the HTML would look like.
It's got a page.
It's got a brand header on it.
So as you might imagine, actually,
let's just do it this way, oops.
This is a header here, right?
Inside of that header, there's an h1.
That yellow that you see there, that's
a margin, so that's got some margin on it.
All the navigation is
getting pushed together.
Okay, it's got a ul,
an unordered list, right?
That's kinda what I used to
put the navigation links.
So you can see all of these
here exist as li's on here.
And inside of them is each an anchor
tag to go to various different places.
So this would go to the sports page or
the opinion.
I didn't make them go anywhere cuz I
didn't code the rest of the website.
But as you might imagine, this would link
off different parts of your website.
Okay, and then I have articles, right?
This is an article,
this is an article, that's an article.
And then down here, Is an article and
a wider article, right?
That's it.
So my question for
you is how would you do this?
Well, what techniques
would you use to do this?
Well, this one's pretty easy.
You just have an h1 that
takes the entire page.
And then you could text align
that to the center, and
then you would set the, And let's just
go through with all this together.
So, This is all of my CSS that I wrote for
it.
But if we inspect element here,
It's got a font-family.
Snell Roundhand was the name
of the font of this, classic,
just looked at for a cursive looking one.
Font-size, no,
I didn't want it to be bolded, right?
Otherwise, it'd be bold,
and that looks weird to me.
60 pixels, and
then text-align center, pretty easy.
ul here, how would you do this?
You could do with grid.
You could do with flex,
I did it with flex.
Space around that fit in nicely.
Align-items center cuz I wanted everything
to be horizontal and vertically centered.
So I did align-items center,
justify-content space-around, right?
If you take the list-style off, otherwise,
there's the little bullets show up.
We didn't want bullets.
Margin 0, otherwise, it had a margin or
anything, and we don't want that.
We want the nice little lines
to connect to each other.
And then padding of 30 pixels, otherwise,
it just gets pushed up on that, and
I wanted some space to give
everything to breathe.
Okay, the li's,
let's look at one of those.
That, I got rid of the text-decoration,
otherwise, they're underlined.
You might argue that might be better,
up to you.
font-size, font-weight, I mean, arguably,
that actually looks better,
but I didn't do that.
Font-family Futura,
otherwise, I don't like that.
And I grayed it out a little bit,
otherwise, it's really bold and black and
pulls your attention.
Okay?
So I'm kinda showing you this because I'm
going to make you do this here in just
a second.
Okay, then we have all the various
different articles here.
But let's look at the page here,
because this is laid out in grid, right?
So if you actually look at
the string here that I used,
it's header header header, right?
So header header header
there across the top.
Nav nav nav, right, so nav nav nav, right?
story-1 story-2 story-3, so
story-1 story-2 story-3,
that worked out well, right?
And then down here is
story-4 story-5 story-5.
Right, cuz story-5 takes up two of
the rows or two of the cells, right?
And then, I mean,
these articles are really just an h2
probably I think is what I put in there.
With a couple of paragraphs, font-size,
text-align center, font-weight normal.
And then I put an italic on there to
kind of give it the news impression.
And that's it.
That is how you lay out all this.
I showed you all
the techniques to do that.
You totally could do this yourself.
And if you want to, it's a good exercise
to go back and maybe try it for yourself,
see if you can do it.